Royal baby: Queen meets great-granddaughter  The princess The princess follows a long line of royals named Charlotte The Queen has met her new great-granddaughter Princess Charlotte for the first time at Kensington Palace.  The princess, who is fourth in line to the throne, was born on Saturday at London's St Mary's Hospital, weighing 8lbs 3oz (3.7kg).  Kensington Palace revealed on Monday that she had been named Charlotte Elizabeth Diana.  The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have formally registered the birth of their second child.  The Queen is believed to have arrived in London from her Sandringham estate in Norfolk.  The Duke of Cambridge signed the birth register at Kensington Palace on Tuesday, witnessed by a registrar from Westminster Register Office.  The document gives the date and place of Princess Charlotte's birth and her full name as Her Royal Highness Princess Charlotte Elizabeth Diana of Cambridge.  The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have formally registered the birth of Princess Charlotte There cannot be too many birth records where the parents' occupations are "Prince and Princess of the UK" The Queen and other senior royals were told of the baby's name before the announcement was made public.  The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall spent more than an hour with their new granddaughter on Sunday.  The Duchess of Cambridge's parents, Michael and Carole Middleton, and sister Pippa have also met the princess.  The Queen after visiting her great-granddaughter The Queen pictured leaving Kensington Palace after meeting her great-granddaughter On Monday, gun salutes took place in London to mark the birth. Gun salutes are a tradition on the birth of every prince or princess.  Soldiers from The King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery rode out in a procession from Wellington Barracks, near Buckingham Palace, to sound 41 shots in Hyde Park .  At the same time, the Honourable Artillery Company left their Armoury House barracks in the City of London to fire a 62-gun salute at the Tower of London.  Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Princess Charlotte The couple took their daughter home after spending just over 12 hours at the hospital The new Princess of Cambridge The newborn was wrapped in a shawl and wearing a bonnet when presented to the world's media 
